Welcome to Griffinomics.
>> It is good to be back. And uh I think
today we're tackling a subject that's
keeping a lot of people up at night.
>> I think that's an understatement.
>> Yeah. Whether you're managing a you know
a billion dollar portfolio or just
looking at your own 401k and wondering
what on earth is going on.
>> Yeah. We are staring at what might be
the most confusing market signal in I
don't know 20 years. It has to be
>> because if you just look at the
headlines or even just check your
portfolio app, it feels like we're
living in two completely different
realities at the same time.
>> That's the perfect way to put it. A tale
of two markets.
>> It's a real white knuckle moment for
anyone paying attention.
>> It is it's a moment of um extreme
bifurcation. We haven't seen a split
this violent in a very very long time.
>> Okay, so let's set the scene here. On
one side, you have this this absolute
explosion in infrastructure.
>> The buildout.
>> The buildout. You've got Nvidia, you've
got the hyperscalers, Amazon, Microsoft,
Google
>> spending money like it's going out of
style.
>> I mean, it's a boom, a gold rush. It
feels like the entire world is being
rebuilt from the ground up,
>> right? The picks and shovels trade is uh
very much alive and well. The builders
are having a party.
>> But then you look at the other side of
the tech sector. You look at software.
You look at the traditional SAW
company's software as a service and it
looks like a crime scene.
>> It really does. It's a violent rotation.
>> Yeah.
>> A blood bath for some of these names.
>> Stocks that were darlings just 2, three
years ago, the set it and forget it
compounders, they are getting absolutely
hammered,
>> just destroyed.
>> So, the core tension we need to figure
out today is why
why are software stocks crashing while
the very hardware that powers them is
hitting all-time highs?
>> That is the multi-t trillion dollar
question, isn't it? Yeah.
>> And to answer it, you have to look
beyond just the stock prices.
>> You have to go deeper. You have to look
at the structural pivot that's happening
right underneath the surface. We are I
think very clearly moving from what we
can call the tool era of software
>> to the agentic era.
>> The agentic era. I love that term but it
also sounds a little ominous.
>> It implies agency. It implies action. It
implies autonomy.
>> It implies replacement. And that is
disruptive. That's the polite word for
it.
>> Okay. So, our mission for this deep dive
is to really unpack what that shift
means. We're going to look at three
massive things.
>> Let's lay them out.
>> First, this is apocalypse. And yes, that
is a real term people are using.
>> It is.
>> And the pricing collapse of that old
model. Second, this what $600 billion
plus infrastructure arms race and why
the big guys are betting the farm on it.
>> An existential bet really.
>> And third, and I think this is the one
that's not getting enough attention, the
hidden bomb.
the credit risks that are lurking in
private equity.
>> That credit piece is absolutely crucial.
It's the invisible thread that could,
you know, unravel the whole sweater if
we aren't careful.
>> It's where the stock market bubble meets
the real economy with real debt.
>> Exactly.
>> Okay, let's unpack this. We have to
start with the mechanics of the crash.
This is apocalypse. It sounds like a bad
sci-fi movie, but
>> for investors in some of these
companies, Salesforce, Workday, Legal
Zoom, it's been a horror show.
>> So, what is actually breaking the model?
What's the fundamental flaw that just
got exposed?
>> To understand why it's breaking, you
have to understand how it was built.
It's actually quite simple. For the last
15, maybe 20 years, the entire software
industry has been built on one single
metric,
>> which is
>> the seat.
>> The seat meaning you charge per person
using the software.
>> Precisely. It's seatbased pricing. If
you're Salesforce or workday or a sauna,
your revenue model is beautifully
simple. You sell a subscription for
every human employee at a company who
needs to log in and use your tool.
>> So if I'm a business and I hire a new
salesperson,
>> you need a new Salesforce seat, Ching.
>> I hire a new HR representative.
>> You need a new workday seat, Ching.
>> So the growth of the software company is
directly onetoone tied to the headcount
growth of their customers.
>> Exactly. More humans equals more money.
>> And it was a fantastic model. It was
predictable. It was scalable. Investors
absolutely loved it because as the
economy grew and companies hired the SAS
revenue grew naturally. It was the
ultimate compounder thesis.
>> But then something broke that link.
>> The link got severed and that's the
disruption. Enter Egentic AI. Enter
Anthropics Claude or OpenAI's advanced
models.
>> This is where the agent comes in. And we
need to be really clear about the
definitions here because I think a lot
of people hear AI and they still think
of, you know, chat GPT writing a poem
for you,
>> right? And that's not what we're talking
about. An AI agent is not just a chatbot
anymore.
>> It's not a fun toy.
>> No, it's not just summarizing an email
or giving you a recipe for dinner. An
agent is a piece of software that can
reason, it can plan, and it can execute
a whole series of tasks to achieve a
goal.
>> It's becoming a substitute for labor,
>> a direct substitute. We're seeing data
now, and look, some of this is still
theoretical, but it suggests one
engineer equipped with these autonomous
AI agents can do the work of 18
engineers.
>> Wait, stop. 1818.
>> That's the number being floated for
certain coding workflows.
>> That sounds like hype. That sounds like
a crazy multiplier.
>> It's definitely the high end of the
theoretical efficiency gains. But let's
be conservative. Let's say it's not 18.
Let's dial it way back. Say it's only
5:1 or even 3:1.
>> Even 3:1 is a revolution.
>> It is. Now do the math on the death of
the seat model. If a company can produce
the same amount of work with say a third
of the engineers because the agents are
doing the heavy lifting, what happens to
their software subscriptions?
>> They plummet. You don't need 18
Salesforce licenses for your sales team
anymore. You might need one for the
senior manager and then well do the
agents themselves need seats?
>> And that is the problem. Currently, they
usually don't. Or the pricing model is
completely different based on
consumption, not a flat per head fee.
>> This is the cannibalization math that's
freaking the market out. It is there is
a theoretical scenario where if
companies fully adopt these agentic
workflows, 94% of seatbased revenue
could be cannibalized.
>> 94%.
>> Think about it. If an agent can
completely replace a parallegal,
>> legal zoom loses that seat forever.
>> And this isn't some far-off future
scenario anymore, is it? We saw this
actually happen in real time just
recently.
>> The Claude Co-work moment.
>> Yes, that was the flash crash that I
think woke everyone up. So, Anthropic,
the AI company, they released these
Claude Co-work plugins. Tell us what
they were.
>> They weren't just a general purpose,
hey, here's a better spell check. These
were plugins specifically designed for
high value professional workflows,
legal, finance, sales,
>> and the market reaction was not subtle.
>> It was instantaneous, and it was
violent. Stocks like Legal Zoom,
Thompson, Reuters, Into, they took
massive hits.
>> Some were down what, nearly 20% in a
matter of days. That's right. Because
investors, the smart money, looked at
that plugin and immediately understood
the implications.
>> They said, "Wait a minute. This AI can
read the legal files. It can organize
the financial folders. It can execute
the multi-step tasks on its own."
>> Exactly. It bypassed the dashboard. The
entire value proposition of so many
sauce companies is their dashboard,
their user interface. The realization
was that you don't need a specialized,
expensive, clunky software dashboard. If
an intelligent agent can just go
directly into your files, do the work,
and give you the finished product,
>> the value of the tool just collapsed
>> completely. It's like
>> if you hire a worldclass butler, you
don't need to know how to operate the
washing machine anymore.
>> That's a great analogy.
>> You just tell the butler, "Clean the
clothes." You don't care how they do it.
>> And the tool era was all about selling
us a better washing machine,
>> better knobs, better dials, a slicker
user interface, more cycle options.
It was about making the tool easier for
a human to use.
>> But the agentic era is about hiring the
butler.
>> And if your entire business is selling
washing machine instruction manuals,
which is what a lot of complex saws
interfaces effectively are,
>> you are in a world of trouble.
>> There's another layer to the
cespocalypse that I found fascinating in
the research. It's this concept of vibe
coding.
>> Yes, this is, I think, just as big a
threat. It's about the collapse of the
barrier to entry.
>> Vibe coding. It sounds like something
teenagers do on Tik Tok, but it's
actually reshaping a multi-trillion
dollar industry. It is.
>> So, it's basically using natural
language, just plain English, to write
software.
>> It is. It's the idea that you don't need
to be an expert in Python or C++ or
JavaScript to build a functional
application anymore.
>> You just need to be able to describe
what you want.
>> You describe the vibe. You describe the
function. I need an app that tracks
customer appointments and sends them a
reminder email 24 hours before and the
AI generates the code for you.
>> Okay, so let's play this out. Let's say
I'm a small business and I'm paying, I
don't know, a million dollars a year for
some specialized sauce product. Let's
call it a niche CRM for uh dog walkers.
And I realize, hey, wait a minute. My
internal IT team or even a smart intern
could just vibe code a clone of this
thing in 3 weeks. What happens to the
vendor's moat?
>> It's gone. It evaporates.
>> That is the crisis for these companies.
The protective moat around their
proprietary code, which took them years
and millions of dollars to build, is
just
>> disappearing.
>> And we're seeing this in the data.
>> We are we're seeing stats that something
like 4% of all code on GitHub is already
AI generated. And that number is going
vertical. So if a competitor or even
your own internal team can spin up a
good enough clone of a proprietary sauce
product in weeks instead of years, what
happens to the value of that software?
>> It stops being a high margin proprietary
asset.
>> It becomes a commod.
>> Becomes a commodity just like water or
electricity.
>> And when things become commodities, the
price crashes. That is the massive
deflationary force that is hitting these
stocks. The scarcity value of code
itself is going to zero.
>> Wow. Okay. So if the tool era is dying
and the agentic era is taking its place,
we need to define that shift a bit more
clearly for people. We use the butler
analogy,
>> right?
>> But in market terms, this is really the
shift from SAS to POS, isn't it? From
software as a service to platform as a
service.
>> That's exactly right. The market is very
very efficiently reallocating capital.
It's fleeing the tools and it is pouring
into the platforms.
>> And the winner or at least the perceived
winner right now is a company we have to
talk about, Palanteer.
>> Palanteer. They're being called the
messy of AI in some of these reports,
>> which you know is about as high praise
as you can get.
>> It is, but you have to look at the
numbers to understand why. They posted
142% revenue growth in their US
commercial markets.
>> 142%.
>> For a company of their size in this
environment, that is just unheard of.
It's a staggering number.
>> So why them? Why is Palanteer not just
surviving but thriving in this
apocalypse when a company like
Salesforce is struggling? Is it just
government contracts and hype?
>> No, it's architectural. It's about what
they actually sell. Palanteer isn't
selling you a tool.
>> They're not selling a better
spreadsheet.
>> They are not. They are selling an
operating system, an OS that allows
companies to build and deploy these very
agents we're talking about.
>> So, they're not the butler. They're the
infrastructure that the butler lives in.
You could say they're selling the house
for the butler or more accurately
they're selling the blueprint of the
house.
>> Okay, what does that mean?
>> They're selling the ontology. Now,
ontology is a bit of a jargon word. So,
let's define it
>> please.
>> In data science, an ontology is
essentially the map of how everything in
your business relates to everything
else. It's the system that defines that
a customer is a person who connects to
an order which then connects to a
specific product which is built in a
certain factory.
>> Okay. So it's the underlying logic of
the business codified.
>> Exactly. Most companies even huge ones
have a complete data mess. They have
data in 50 different silos in a hundred
different formats. An AI agent is
completely useless if it doesn't know
what all that data means or how it
connects.
>> It's garbage in garbage out.
>> Precisely. Palanteer comes in and
provides that meaning. They create the
digital twin of the business.
>> So when an agent asks, "How many widgets
did we sell in Ohio last quarter?"
>> Yeah.
>> It gets a real answer.
>> They are a Patty play as a service. They
are enabling the agentic shift, not
getting replaced by it.
>> That makes sense. And it brings us to
the other big buzzword in this section
of the research, orchestration layers.
Because if we have all these agents
running around doing tasks, legal
agents, coding agents, HR agents, it
sounds like potential chaos.
>> It is absolute chaos if it's not managed
properly. I mean, think about it. If you
have a thousand autonomous agents
executing tasks across your company, who
is watching them?
>> Who makes sure the legal agent doesn't
promise a contract term that the finance
agent can't possibly deliver on?
>> Exactly. Who manages the managers? Who
is the conductor of the orchestra? This
is where the concept of the platform of
platforms comes in and this is the big
bet that a company like service now is
making
>> a huge pivot for them.
>> So service now or no they are trying
very hard to become this this control
tower for all the agents.
>> They are their CEO Bill McDermott has
been extremely vocal about this. Their
entire argument is that agents need
governance.
>> They need rules. They need rules and
they need what's called a semantic
layer, which is just a fancy way of
saying a single source of truth.
>> So, you can't have an agent just making
up a price for a customer,
>> right? It has to pull that price from a
verified up-to-date database. It needs
guard rails to prevent hallucinations or
catastrophic errors.
>> So, the theory here is the companies
that hold the data and manage the
agents, the orchestrators,
they are the ones who survive and win.
And the companies that just provide a
digital form for a human to type data
into
>> the lazy saws.
>> They die. It's that simple.
>> Lazy saws. That is a brutal but very
clear term.
>> It's natural selection in the digital
age. If your software is just a fancy
data entry form, an agent can do that
entry faster and cheaper. Your value
proposition is gone. You need to provide
intelligence or you need to provide the
infrastructure. Anything in that mushy
middle gets crushed.
>> Okay, so that explains the crash on the
software side. the death of the seat,
the rise of the agent, the commodity
dexization of code. It's a perfect
storm.
>> It really is.
>> But now we have to pivot to the other
side of this bifurcation. The boom, the
spending, the absolute mountain of cash
being uh well either lit on fire or
wisely invested depending on your point
of view.
>> The numbers are genuinely staggering.
It's hard to even comprehend the scale.
>> Let's hit the big one from the reports.
Amazon, their anticipated cap capital
expenditure for 2026 is roughly $200
billion. 200 billion with a B for one
company in one year.
>> And it's not just them. Google and
Microsoft aren't far behind. The total
spend from the big hyperscalers is
approaching $600 billion.
>> Let's put that number in perspective for
a second. That is more than the entire
GDP of a country like Sweden or
Argentina
>> just on ships and data centers.
>> It is without exaggeration the largest
industrial project in human history. And
it's happening in real time right now.
So naturally half the market looks at
this and just screams bubble.
>> Of course
>> they are having intense flashbacks to
the late '9s to the telecom bubble.
>> The dark fiber trauma. It seared into
the memory of a generation of investors.
>> Okay. So remind us what happened there
because a lot of our listeners might
know the term but they might not
remember the mechanics of why it blew up
so spectacularly.
>> Right. Right. So in the late '9s the
thesis was that internet traffic was
going to double every hundred days
forever
>> which seemed plausible at the time.
>> It was the field of dreams era of
investing.
>> Yeah.
>> Build it and they will come. So telecom
companies, WorldCom, Global Crossing,
they raised and spent billions of
dollars laying fiber optic cables across
the oceans and under the ground.
>> They were building the highways for an
internet that didn't quite exist yet.
>> Exactly. And then the traffic didn't
grow that fast. The demand wasn't there
yet. We were all still on screechy
dialup modems.
>> So you had thousands and thousands of
miles of dark fiber
>> lit cables with no data, no revenue
moving through them. It was a massive
overbuild of supply before the demand
existed and it led to a historic crash.
Billions, maybe trillions of dollars of
capital just destroyed.
>> So the bare case today is that we are
doing the exact same thing all over
again. We're building dark data centers.
for buying millions of Nvidia chips that
are just going to sit there consuming
power and doing nothing.
>> That is the fear. That is the ghost of
2000. But there is a very very strong
counterargument,
>> the bullcase.
>> The one led by people like Kathy Wood at
ARK and of course Jensen Huang at
Nvidia.
>> The alive assets argument.
>> Okay. What does that mean?
>> Yes. They argued that 2026 is
fundamentally different from the year
2000. When you laid a piece of fiber
optic cable, it was a passive asset. It
just sat there dark until someone
decided to send a signal through it.
>> It was inert.
>> But a GPU, an Nvidia H100. The moment
you plug that chip in, it is alive,
>> meaning it's being used.
>> Meaning it's being used. The utilization
rates for these advanced AI chips right
now are effectively 100%. They are
rented out. The compute time is sold
before the chips even leave the factory
in Taiwan.
>> The demand to supply ratio is something
crazy like 12:1.
>> That's the number being reported. So
unlike the fiber which was built and
then waited for customers, here you have
the customers literally banging on the
door fighting over the limited supply of
chips.
>> So it's not build it and they will come.
It's they're already here screaming for
more. So we have to build it as fast as
humanly possible.
>> That's the difference. And there's
another key distinction here between
training compute and inference compute.
This is important.
>> Break that down for us.
>> Training is the process of building the
AI brain. It's showing the model a
trillion pieces of data. That takes
massive clusters of GPUs running for
months. It's a huge upfront cost.
>> And the bears say that once the big
models are trained, that spending will
stop.
>> Exactly. The bear case is that training
is a one-time thing, but the bulls are
focused on inference. Inference is the
brain actually thinking. answering a
question, writing a piece of code,
running one of these agents.
>> Yes, the daily usage. And the bull
argument is that as we move into the
agentic era, the demand for inference
for billions of agents doing trillions
of tasks every day is going to explode
exponentially. It will dwarf the amount
of compute we used for training.
>> And this is what Dan Ice calls an arms
race, right? This spending isn't
optional for these companies.
>> It's existential. Think about it. If
Google decides to slow its spending,
Microsoft, Azure, and OpenAI win. If
Amazon stops building out AWS, they risk
losing their dominance in cloud
computing for the next generation.
>> They can't afford not to spend the $200
billion.
>> They view it as table stakes for the
next 20 years of the global economy.
They are building the new cities of
compute because that's where everyone is
going to live and work.
>> But there is a very real physical
bottleneck, isn't there? It's not the
money. It's not even the supply of chips
anymore. Really,
>> it's energy, plain and simple.
>> The grid just can't handle it.
>> We are talking about building individual
data centers that will consume gigawatts
of power. That's the same amount of
electricity as a major city.
>> And the US power grid was not built for
this kind of concentrated demand.
>> Not even close. We're running out of
transformers. We're running out of
substations. In some regions, there's a
multi-year waiting list to get enough
power for a new data center. That is the
only thing slowing the spend down. Not a
lack of demand, but a literal lack of
electrons.
>> Which is why you see these wild
headlines like Microsoft making a deal
with Constellation Energy to potentially
restart the threemile island nuclear
power plant.
>> Nuclear's back on the table in a big
way. Yeah.
>> Because AI needs massive amounts of
reliable 247 base load power.
>> And this brings up the multiplier effect
that was mentioned in the research. This
is a key part of the bull case. Why the
bubble talk might be wrong.
>> It is the idea is that for every $1
that's spent on an Nvidia chip.
>> The initial purchase
>> there's an estimated 8 to10 multiplier
effect across the entire tech ecosystem.
>> How does that work?
>> Well, that dollar flows into energy. It
flows into building the data centers. It
flows into specialized cooling systems.
It flows into the pays and orchestration
software layers we just talked about. It
creates an entire economy around it. So
the infrastructure spend eventually
lifts the whole boat
>> eventually, but eventually it can be a
very long and painful time if you happen
to be holding the wrong bag.
>> Speaking of holding the bag, this feels
like the perfect transition. Let's move
to section four. This is the part of the
research that I have to admit actually
scared me a little.
>> It should.
>> The credit risks. Because we can talk
about stocks crashing and that's painful
for investors, but when the credit
markets start to break,
that's when the whole system gets into
trouble. That's where the plumbing
lives.
>> Credit is the plumbing. And if the
plumbing bursts, the whole house floods.
And right now, there is a very nasty
clog forming in the world of private
equity.
>> The LBO trap.
>> LBO, leverage buyout. Let's break down
the setup. For the last decade, with
interest rates near zero, private equity
firms, the big PE shots, have been on a
buying spree.
>> And what were they buying?
>> They were buying a boring, stable B2B
software companies. The lazy saws
companies we just defined.
>> Exactly. They bought them because the
cash flow is seen as incredibly
predictable. You have seats. You have
recurring subscriptions. You have money
coming in the door every month like
clockwork.
>> So they took these cash cow companies
>> and they loaded them up with enormous
amounts of debt to complete the
purchase. That's the leveraged part of
the LBO.
>> They used the company's own credit card
to buy the company.
>> That's a great way to put it. And they
paid huge, huge premiums. The research
shows they were buying these companies
at valuations of roughly 20 times EBITa.
>> 20 times earnings. That is priced for
perfection. That assumes everything goes
right forever.
>> It is it's a valuation that leaves zero
room for error. Yeah.
>> And the entire underwriting assumption
was this company will grow its revenue
10 15% a year. Every year forever.
Because companies always need to hire
more people and buy more software seats.
>> And then this apocalypse happens. The
music stops. the seats stop growing. In
fact, for some of them, they start
shrinking because of AIdriven
efficiency. The growth slows to a crawl
or even goes negative.
>> So now you have a company that is
carrying a massive debt load that was
bought with the expectation of high
growth and that growth is just not
there. What are these companies actually
worth now in the open market?
>> Well, the market is now clearing these
types of businesses at maybe 9A
if they're lucky. Oof. So you bought it
at 20x and now it's worth 9x. That is a
deeply underwater mortgage.
>> It's a balance sheet disaster. And this
is where the hidden bomb is ticking.
Software now represents about 31% of all
distressed names in the syndicated loan
market.
>> 31%. That is a massive concentration of
risk in one sector.
>> It's a huge red flag. And there's an
even more specific signal flashing
bright red right now. It's called the
PIK smoke signal. P IK payment in kind.
>> Okay, explain this to me like I'm five
or maybe like I'm a very nervous
investor who owns a bond fund.
>> Okay, imagine you have a mortgage on
your house and every month the bank
calls and asks for your payment. But you
tell the bank, I'm sorry, I don't have
the cash this month.
>> Not good.
>> So the bank says, "Okay, don't worry
about it. We will just add this month's
interest payment to the total amount you
owe us."
>> So you're paying your debt by taking on
more debt.
>> You are increasing the principal loan
amount to avoid paying the cash
interest. It is the absolute textbook
definition of a zombie company. You're
technically not in default, but you're
just accumulating a larger and larger
burden that you'll likely never be able
to repay.
>> And the stat here from the research says
that software PIK usage has now hit
11.3%.
>> That is a very, very high number. It
signals a systemic inability to service
cash interest across the sector. It's a
giant smoke signal that the fire is
burning inside the house, even if you
can't see the flames yet. And this is
the critical question. Who holds all
this debt? It's not just the private
equity firms, right? I mean, if it was
just a few billionaires losing money on
a bad bet, I don't think our listeners
would care that much.
>> No, this is the waterfall risk. This is
the contagion risk. When these saw
companies can't pay, it doesn't just
hurt the PE fund. That debt has been
packaged up and sold. It hits the
private credit markets. It hits things
called BDC's, business development
companies. It hits CLO's collateralized
loan obligations. These are complex
investment vehicles that are held by
pension funds, by insurance companies,
by endowments.
>> So, this isn't just tech bros losing
money on a spreadsheet company. This is
potentially the Illinois teachers
pension fund taking a massive haircut.
>> It's a credit market contagion risk.
That's why this matters to everyone, not
just tech investors. If this software
debt bubble pops, liquidity for everyone
dries up. Banks get scared and stop
lending to healthy companies. It becomes
a macro event very quickly,
>> man. Okay, that is the scary part. That
is definitely the keep you up at night
part of the story
>> for sure.
>> Let's pivot now to the broader macro
view because despite all this, despite
the sauce crash, despite the credit
risk, the broader economic forecast from
some corners is well, it's confusingly
optimistic.
>> It is. It's the great paradox of what
some are calling the deflationary boom.
>> Section five, the big picture, the
macroeconomic view.
>> At its core, AI is a massive
deflationary force. We touched on this.
It dramatically lowers the cost of
intelligence. It lowers the cost of
labor,
>> which usually sounds bad for the
economy. We're all scared of deflation.
But in this context, we're talking about
super productivity,
>> right? It's not the bad kind of
deflation where demand collapses. It's
the good kind where you can produce 10
times more software or 10 times more
legal briefs or 10 times more
architectural designs for the same or
lower cost. That is a massive massive
boost to productivity
>> and the forecasts are pretty wild. ARK
Invest Kathy Woodshop is forecasting
that these AIdriven gains could
accelerate US GDT growth to 6 to 8%
annually by 2030.
>> 6 to 8%. I mean, we haven't seen
sustained growth like that since I don't
know the postw World War II boom.
>> It would be a monumental jump from the 2
3% we've gotten used to. It suggests an
economy absolutely on steroids. A
roaring 20s scenario on a scale we've
never seen before. a true productivity
revolution.
>> But, and there is always a but who
actually benefits from that growth
because at the same time we're seeing
this deeply troubling employment
divergence.
>> Yes, the hollow middle. This is the huge
social risk. You can look at the
headline unemployment number and it
might stay very low, 3 or 4%.
>> Looks great on paper,
>> but then you have to look underneath the
hood. Look at specific demographics.
Look at youth unemployment. Look at ages
16 to 24. In the reports, it's noted
that it has spiked to over 10%.
>> It has. So why why in a booming economy
are young people struggling to find
work?
>> Because what is the first job a
22-year-old college grad gets?
>> Exactly. It's data entry, junior
copywriter, junior coder, analyzing
spreadsheets, compiling reports,
>> routine cognitive work.
>> The exact category of work that Agenic
AI is automating first and fastest. So
the very first bottom rung of the white
collar career ladder is being
systematically sought off.
>> That is a huge societal problem. If you
can't get that entrylevel job, you can't
learn the skills and get the experience
to become the senior manager or the
executive 10 years down the line. The
entire pipeline breaks.
>> It does. The apprenticeship model of
white collar work where you learn by
doing simple tasks for a senior person
is breaking down. The economy grows, GDP
booms, corporate profits are fantastic
because they don't have to pay juniors,
>> but an entire generation of kids can't
get a job.
>> That is the central tension of the next
decade right there. It's a potential
wealth boom without necessarily being a
jobs boom in the traditional sectors.
>> It forces a complete rethink of
everything from education to job
training, but that's probably a topic
for another deep dive.
>> It is. Now there is one more fascinating
convergence in this macro section and it
involves an asset that is uh always
controversial. It involves Bitcoin.
>> Yes, the Bitcoin AI convergence.
>> I feel like if you say Bitcoin and AI in
the same sentence, you automatically
trigger some kind of buzzword bingo win.
But there is actually a deep logical
connection here. This isn't just hype.
>> There really is. And it goes right back
to the agents we've been talking about.
>> The coming machine to machine economy.
>> Think about it for a second. In the
fully realized agentic era, you have an
AI agent that needs to book travel for
its boss. It needs to buy more compute
power to run a simulation. It needs to
negotiate a price with another company's
procurement agent,
>> right? How does it pay for things? Does
the agent have a Wells Fargo checking
account?
>> It can't. It literally cannot. It can't
pass KYC know your customer regulations.
>> It doesn't have a driver's license. It
doesn't have a social security number.
It can't fill out the forms. a bank
won't touch it.
>> So, how does the agent actually
transact? If an agent needs to buy $5
worth of server time from another agent,
how does that money move instantly and
programmatically?
>> It needs native digital rails. It needs
money that exists purely in the digital
world.
>> And Bitcoin or more specifically a layer
2 solution like the lightning network
built on top of Bitcoin is seen as the
solution for that.
>> So, Bitcoin becomes the native currency
of the AI agents.
>> That is the thesis. It is the distinct
neutral asset class for the machine
economy. It operates 24/7 365 just like
the agents do. It's trustless. It's
programmable. And interestingly, the
data is starting to back this up. We're
seeing Bitcoin's correlation to gold
drop to near zero. It's at 0.14 right
now.
>> What does that low correlation tell us?
It tells us the market is starting to
treat it less like digital gold, a
simple store of value for humans to
hedge against inflation and more like a
distinct utility asset, a piece of
technology for this new digital economy.
The market is pricing it as a functional
rail, not just a pet rock.
>> That is a wild thought. A global robot
economy running on crypto rails while
the humans are trying to figure out
where all the entry-level jobs went.
>> It is a brave and very strange new
world.
>> Okay, so what does this all mean for the
listener? We've covered a ton of ground
here. the software crash, the
infrastructure boom, the debt bomb, the
robot economy. Let's get to the final
verdict. Section six. How do you
navigate this surgical allocation?
>> We need a clear strategy. You cannot
just buy tech as a category anymore.
That is a recipe for disaster.
>> The rising tide lifts all boats era for
tech is over.
>> It's over. Now, the tide is a tsunami
that is lifting a few boats to the moon
and smashing all the others against the
rocks.
>> The research notes strongly suggest a
barbell strategy.
>> Good barbell. The classic strategy for a
bifurcated market like this. On the left
side of the barbell, you have your safe,
heavy assets. You have infrastructure.
>> This is the safety trade
>> relatively speaking. Yes. This is the
pick and shovel play from the gold rush.
>> You don't bet on which miner will find
gold. You sell all the miners the picks
and shovels.
>> So that's Nvidia.
>> Nvidia, it's energy nuclear companies,
grid infrastructure plays, and it's the
hyperscalers themselves, Amazon and
Microsoft, who are building the digital
cities. You buy the concrete and steel
of the digital age.
>> Okay, that's the left side of the
barbell. And on the right, much smaller
side,
>> the orchestrators, the high growth,
high-risk, agentic winners.
>> This is your palunteer. This is maybe
Service Now if their pivot works. These
are the companies that are proving they
can be the operating system for the
agents, the passplace, the companies
that own the data structure and the
governance layers.
>> And crucially, what is in the middle of
the barbell? What do we avoid at all
costs?
>> The middle of the barbell is empty.
That's the kill zone.
>> Sounds dramatic.
>> It's accurate. In the kill zone, you
have lazy saws. You avoid the pure
seatbased models that don't have a
proprietary data mode. If their main
business is we sell a login to a human
to fill out a form, you stay away.
>> The reports specifically mention names
like legal zoom, docuign, a sauna as
being in the bare case.
>> Those are the archetypes.
>> Yeah.
>> And the new rule for investors in this
space has to be guilty until proven
innocent.
>> What do you mean by that?
>> The burden of proof has shifted. A
software company must prove to you that
it has a viable plan to monetize AI
through consumption models, through
tokenbased pricing, something before you
should even consider touching the stock.
If they are still on their earnings call
bragging about seed growth, you should
run
>> because as the outlook says, we are in
year three of a 10-year buildout.
>> Exactly. This is not the end of the
bubble popping. This is the forest fire.
>> And a forest fire, while destructive,
serves a purpose. It clears out the
deadwood. It clears out the weak,
outdated business models, the Deadwood,
to make room for new, stronger growth.
It's the new industrial revolution. It's
incredibly painful if you happen to be
the Deadwood, but it's a necessary,
healthy process for the forest as a
whole.
>> That is a hopeful yet simultaneously
terrifying image.
>> That's creative destruction. That's
economics. All right, as we wrap up, we
always like to leave our listeners with
a final provocative thought, something
to chew on after the deep dive is over.
>> We've talked a lot today about stocks
and companies and markets. But for the
final thought, I want you to make it
personal. Think about yourself,
>> your own job, your own career.
>> I want you to consider the future of
your own career in this agentic era. If
software truly moves from a tool you use
to an agent that replaces you,
>> you have to ask yourself, are you the
operator of the tool or are you the
bottleneck? If your job primarily
consists of operating the tool, if you
are just the person who knows which
buttons to click in Salesforce or Excel
or Photoshop, you are the bottleneck and
bottlenecks get automated away. You need
to find a way to become the
orchestrator,
the supervisor, the one designing the
workflow for the agents, not the one
stuck inside it.
>> Heavy stuff, but much better to think
about it now than when the pink slip
comes from a robot. Indeed, it's adapt
or atrophy
>> risk defined
>> portfolio protected.